[NP] add platform main principles (#53866)
elastic/kibana: src/core/PRINCIPLES.md

## Common dictionary
Plugin - TODO
Platform - TODO

## New platform principles
### Explicit business domains separation.
The plugins code should be structured on the top level to reflect business units.
```js
// GOOD
src/plugins
 - apm
  - server
  - public
 - search
 ..
// BAD
src/plugins
 - server
  - apm
  - search
```
### Explicit dependencies.
Each plugin should declare dependencies explicitly. Plugins cannot have circular dependencies. Plugins shouldn't have hidden dependencies.
```json
"requiredPlugins": ["b"],
"optionalPlugins": ["c"],
```
### Explicit API declaration.
Each plugins defines API & extension points explicitly. Any other API isn't declared explicitly as public, should be considered private.
```js
// GOOD
deps.plugin.getData();
// BAD.
`GET /api/plugin/data`

> ```

Reviewer: TODO add encapsulated state

## Common dictionary
Plugin - a piece of software expressing specific subject of the business unit within the code.

> Platform - a set of plugins required to run all other Kibana plugins.

Reviewer 2: calling core's elasticsearch a "plugin" can be a bit confusing.

This from line 24 could make it sound like you need to declare an dependency on core's elasticsearch too.
> Each plugin should declare dependencies on the other plugins explicitly

Maybe we could call these services instead of plugins?

Reviewer: `services` introduces a new term. how about `functionality required to run all the Kibana plugins.`?

## New platform principles
### Explicit business domains separation
The plugins code should be structured on the top level to reflect business units.
```js
// GOOD
src/plugins
 - apm
  - server
  - public
 - search
 ..
// BAD
src/plugins
 - server
  - apm
  - search
```
### Explicit dependencies

> Each plugin should declare dependencies on the other plugins explicitly. Plugins cannot have circular dependencies. Plugins shouldn't have hidden dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Plugins should also not have hard dependencies on registered values. For example, one plugin should handle the case where a specific visualization type has not been registered, unless it has declared an explicit dependency on that plugin.

Reviewer: I see the point. This is a particular case of `Plugins shouldn't have hidden dependencies.` Don't know if we should provide a specific example of it. Otherwise, the file will grow to an unmanageable size quite soon. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I think this is a pretty common one that I've had to warn about before. Though TypeScript does help us out here now, I'm not sure all teams are going to be using TS everywhere.

Reviewer: what if express it as `Plugins shouldn't access runtime objects, HTTP endpoints, DOM nodes, etc. created by a third party plugin without declaring a dependency on this plugin.`

```json

> "requiredPlugins": ["b"],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"requiredPlugins": ["search"],
```

> "optionalPlugins": ["c"],

Reviewer 2: nit: it's sometimes easier to understand examples if they use realistic values
```suggestion
"optionalPlugins": ["apm"],
```

```
### Explicit API declaration

> Each plugins defines API & extension points explicitly. Any other API is not declared explicitly as public, should be considered private.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each plugins defines API & extension points explicitly. Any other API that not declared explicitly as public should be considered private. HTTP endpoints belonging to other plugins are considered private. Plugins should expose JavaScript interfaces on top of these HTTP endpoints for other plugins to consume.
```

> Each plugins defines API & extension points explicitly. Any other API that not declared explicitly as public should be considered private. HTTP endpoints belonging to other plugins are considered private. Plugins should expose JavaScript interfaces on top of these HTTP endpoints for other plugins to consume.

Reviewer 2: Is there a difference between "API" and "extension point"?
What about saying "should expose JavasScript client" instead of interface?
```suggestion
Each plugin has to define an explicit API. Any other API's that has not been declared explicitly as public should be considered private. HTTP endpoints belonging to other plugins are considered private. Plugins should expose a JavaScript client on top of these HTTP endpoints for other plugins to consume.
```

```js
// GOOD
deps.plugin.getData();
// BAD.
`GET /api/plugin/data`
```
### Encapsulated state

> Each plugin encapsulates its internal state. It doesn't rely on any kind of global state. Plugins provide an internal state via explicit API, reflecting the dynamic nature of the state (an event bus, observables, getter/setter functions). A plugin can change other plugin state calling its public API method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each plugin encapsulates its internal state. It doesn't rely on any kind of global state. Plugins provide an internal state via explicit API, reflecting the dynamic nature of the state (an event bus, observables, getter/setter functions). A plugin can change other plugin state by calling its public API method.
```
